Because a world fully alive has the power of a Hell.
p.15

The great living neutrality struggling

p.91

If so, then love is much more than love: love is something before love: it's plankton struggling, and the great living neutrality struggling.

p.91

No, don't get scared! certainly what had saved me until that moment from the sentimentalized life from which I'd been living is that the inhuman part is the best part of us, it's the thing, thing-part of us. That's the only reason that, as a false person, I had never before burrowed beneath the sentimental and utilitarian construction: my human feelings were utilitarian, but I hadn't burrowed under because the thing-part, matter of the God, was too powerful and was waiting to reclaim me. The great neutral punishment of general life is that it can suddenly undermine a single life; if it isn't given its own power, then it bursts as a dam bursts-and arrives pure, unadulterated: purely neutral. That was the great danger: when that nneutral part of things doesn't sate a personal life, life arrives purely neutral.

p.65-66

Yesterday, however, I lost my human setup for hours and hours. If I have the courage, I'll let myself stay lost. But I'm afraid of newness and I'm afraid of living whatever I don't understand-I always want to be sure to at least think I understand, I don't know how to give myself over to disorientation. How could I explain my greatest fear is precisely of: being?

p.4-5

I would have to take the holy risk of chance. And I will substitute fate for probability.

p.5

Yesterday, however, I lost my human setup for hours and hours. If I have the
courage, I’ll let myself stay lost. But I’m afraid of newness and I’m afraid of
living whatever I don’t understand — I always want to be sure to at least think I
understand, I don’t know how to give myself over to disorientation. How could I
explain that my greatest fear is precisely of: being? and yet there is no other way.
How can I explain that my greatest fear is living whatever comes? how to
explain that I can’t stand seeing, just because life isn’t what I thought but
something else — as if I knew what! Why is seeing such disorganization?

p.4-5

Perhaps what happened to me was an understanding-and for me to be true, I have to keep on eing unable to grasp it, I have to keep on being unable to grasp it, keep on not understanding it. All sudden understanding is finally the revelation of an acute incomprehension. Each moment of finding is a getting lost.

p.8

Except now I know a secret. Which I am already forgetting, ah I feel that I'm already forgetting....

>Connects to anamnesis/amnesis, a protective grace? the return from passio and the fading glow of a break in our self-determination?

p.8

This is madness, I thought with my eyes closed. But it was so undeniable
feeling that birth from inside the dust — that all I could do was follow
something I was well aware wasn’t madness, it was, my God, the worse truth,
the horrible one. But why horrible? Because without words it contradicted
everything I used to think also without words.

p.53

But I knew that that was not how I should do it. I knew that I would have to
eat the paste of the roach, but eat it all of me, and eat it also my own fear. Only
then would I have what suddenly seemed to me would be the anti-sin: eating the
paste of the roach is the anti-sin, sin would be my easy purity.
The anti-sin. But at what a price.
At the price of traversing a sensation of death.
I got up and took a step forward, with the determination not of a suicide but
of a murderer of myself.

p.172

So I stepped forward.
My joy and my shame came upon waking from the faint. No, it hadn’t been a
faint. It had been more of a dizziness, since I was still standing, resting my hand
on the wardrobe. A dizziness that made me lose track of moments and of time.
But I knew, even before thinking, that, while I took leave of myself in the
dizziness, “something had been done.”
I didn’t want to think but I knew. I was afraid of tasting in my mouth what I
was tasting, I was afraid of running my hand across my lips and finding traces.
And I was afraid of looking at the roach — which now should have less white
paste upon its opaque back. . . .
I was ashamed of having gone dizzy and unconscious in order to do
something that I would never again know how I had done — since before doing
it I had removed from myself all participation. I had not wanted “to know.”
So that was how things were processed? “Not knowing” — so that was how
the deepest things happened? some thing would always, always have to be
apparently dead in order for the living to process? I’d had to not know that I was
alive? Was the secret of never escaping from the greater life living like a
sleepwalker?
Or was living like a sleepwalker the greatest act of trust? closing one’s eyes
in dizziness, and never knowing what went on.
Like a transcendence. Transcendence, which is the memory of the past or the
present or the future. In me was transcendence the only way I could reach the
thing? Since even eating of the roach, I had acted to transcend the very act of
eating it. And now all I had was the vague memory of a horror, all I had was the
idea.
Until the memory got so strong that all my body screamed inside itself.
I tensed my fingernails on the wall: I now felt the nastiness in my mouth, and
then began to spit, to furiously spit that taste of no such thing, taste of a nothing
that nonetheless seemed almost sweetened to me like certain flower petals, taste
of myself — I was spitting out myself, without ever reaching the point of feeling
that I had finally spit out my whole soul. “———because you are lukewarm,
and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of My mouth,” it was the Apocalypse
according to Saint John, and the phrase that must refer to other things I no longer
remembered, the phrase came to me from the depths of memory, standing for the
insipid of which I had eaten — and I was spitting.
Which was difficult: because the neutral thing is extremely energetic, I was
spitting and it was still I.
I only halted in my fury when I understood with surprise that I was undoing
everything I had laboriously done, when I understood that I was renouncing
myself. And that, alas, I was only up to my own life.
I stopped astonished, and my eyes filled with tears that only burned and did
not flow. I think I did not even judge myself worthy that tears should flow, I
lacked the first pity for myself, which allows crying, and in my pupils I retained
in ardor the tears that were salting me and that I did not deserve to flow.
But, even without flowing, the tears were in some way companions and
bathed me in some way with commiseration, so that I started lowering a
consoled head. And, like someone returning from a journey, I returned to sitting
quietly on the bed.
I who had thought that the best proof of the transmutation of me into myself
would be putting the white paste of the roach in my mouth. And that that way I
would draw near to whatever is . . . divine? to whatever is real? The divine for
me is whatever is real.

p.173-175

No, my love, it wasn’t good like what’s called good. It was what’s called
bad. Really very, very bad. Since my root, which I was only now tasting, had the
flavor of potato-tuber, mixed with the earth from which it had been torn. Yet that
bad taste had a strange grace of life that I can only understand if I felt it again
and can only explain by feeling it again.

p.173

Ah, my love, do not be afraid of neediness: it is our greater destiny. Love is
so much more fatal than I had thought, love is as inherent as wanting itself, and
we are guaranteed by a necessity that shall renew itself continuously. Love
already is, it is always. All that is missing is the coup de grâce — which is called
passion.

p.179

I understood that, by placing in my mouth the paste of the roach, I was not
stripping myself as the saints do, but was once again yearning for the accretion.
The accretion is easier to love.

p. 178